So we're able to see the maps in our applications now,
now let's make sure that if the user clicks somewhere in the map, we add a marker to it.
So for this, we need to listen to a click event on the map and then somehow render a marker,
the good thing is react native maps supports both.
Now the best way to learn about these features is either to have a look at the example app you can find
on this github repository or at the APIs, we're interested in a click on the map view component,
so let's check out the map view component API,
there you see all the props you can set and which values they would expect and you see the events you
can listen to, like onPress which you guessed it, can be used to react to tabs on the map.
So this is what I'm interested in,
I want to react to this so I'll add onPress here to the map view
and now of course we also need a handler for that, I'll add it right above the render function and I'll name it
pick location handler,
there we get some event data provided by react native maps and we want to use that event data to
essentially reset our focused location which is the one we're binding to the map view here to the location
user the clicked on.
Now a click will yield us a latitude and longitude,
so a point which is defined by these two positions or by these two units.
So we need to get that
and thankfully this event exposes this to us.
However we don't directly get an object with latitude or longitude, instead this is wrapped in some
synthetic event managed by react,
so we can easily get it by creating a new coords constant and then accessing event
but there we need to access native event to get the underlying event provided by react native maps and
there, we'll have a coordinate property which gives us these coordinates.
You can see that in the official documentation, you just don't see the native event part though it is
documented up here and then you see there is an object which has one property coordinate and there, we
have an object which has a coordinate and a position property, we're interested in the coordinates here with
latitude and longitude.
So what I'll do here is
I'll set my state and I'll get the previous state here
and here I'll then return a javascript object which should be merged with the old state
where I'll set the focus location. I'll copy the properties of the old focused location to keep my latitude
delta and longitude delta which I don't want to change,
that's basically the zoom level you could say
and then I'll set latitude here to coords latitude, there will be a latitude property on that coords object
or on this coordinate object here
and I'll set longitude here to coords longitude.
With that we have a way of picking a location,
so let's try this out and let's hook up pick location handler to the onPress event here,
this pick location handler. Let's save this,
now with that we get this connected,
however the focused location here is bound to the initial region.
This won't update after the first render,
so even if we changed focus location, it will not move to the new location because it's only initialized
with that.
Well we can fix this,
we can have a look at the API documentation
and there we see that we not only got a initial region, we also got a region. So we can also bind region to
this and the initial region will become important later again
and I'll also bind region to focus location now. With that let me reload the application here
and quickly enter some credentials here and now if I click somewhere, the map indeed jumps to that
place,
centers this new place, so here I'm clicking on Nob Hill here on this object here so it's centered,
so this is all working now.
Now of course jumping to it like this is isn't that beautiful
and also it would be nice to have some marker at the position where we clicked.
So these are the two things I want to add next,
a little animation to smoothly go to where we clicked on and a marker at the position where we clicked.
Now let's start with the marker.